# Investment-Software
R Programs for fundamental and technical analysis useful for investment portfolio analysis

R-based SW for use in investments. I took a course from Georgia Tech in 2014 that used Python and a library developed by the professor. I was not sure whether it is being updated and maintained as of 2018, since I did not see any mention of the course being offered again. So, I opted to use R. R seems to have two good packages for use with financial analysis that are being actively maintained: quantmod and TTR. The authors also seem to have video lessons (cost: $29/month) at datacamp. However, I also found that TTR has a few good examples on page 50. I plan to use them to get started and take the lessons if needed. Here is a good reference for technology indicators, at FM Labs .

To get started, I have used "Analyzing Financial Data and Implementing Financial Models Using R," 2015 Edition, by Clifford S. Ang. The author develops R code independent of quantmod, but also formats all the data to match up with quantmod so one can take either route. I did find some discrepancies (nothing major); it is easier to use quantmod and TTR, assuming one understands all the parameters. I plan to use them, and build on the studies in Ang's book, using Knitr and for the current period of 2017-2018. The knitr code should be easily alterable to other time periods. Knitr is good for fast and dynamic report generating. My output in html will also be uploaded. Instructions on how to read html document will be given below.

I also plan to set up stock portfolios based on several stock screens at AAII.org (which includes those detailed in O'Shaunessy's book: "What Works on Wall Street, Fourth Edition: The Classic Guide to the Best-Performing Investment Strategies of All Time" , 2011 by James P. O'Shaughnessy). AAII also provides StockInvestor Pro database (for $199/year) that provides cross-sectional data and a variety of metrics that can help us set up screens for many popular strategies. About half of them have done better than S&P 500 over a longer track period of 5 and 10 years. My goal is to build stock portfolios based on them, using R, and track those portfolios using a stock game simulator at investopedia. It is a free account. This is both to ensure that R code is functional and to evaluate the performance of portfolios.

Comments to add: Fundamental and Time Series analysis.

I will redo the examples that are given in [TTR Package](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/TTR/TTR.pdf). 
